# Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)

---

## What is EC2?

- Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud is a web-service that provides resizable compute
    capacity in the cloud. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and
    boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale
    capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change.

- In short, virtual machines in the cloud.

- It changes the economics of computing by allowing you to pay only for capacity
    that you actually use. EC2 provides devs with the tools to build failure
    resilient apps and isolate from common failure scenarios.

## Usage Options

- **On Demand**
    - Pay a fixed rate per hour (or by second) with no commitment.

- **Reserved**
    - Make a capacity reservation; offers a significant hourly discount; but the
        contract lasts for an year or 3 year terms.

- **Spot**
    - Enables a bidding; you wager a price for instance capacity.

- **Dedicated Hosts**
    - Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use.

## Deeper look into the options

### On Demand

- Used by users who want low cost and flexibility of Amazon EC2 without any
    up-front payment or long-term commitment.
- Apps with short term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be
    interrupted.
- Apps being developed or tested on EC2 for the first time (test drive).

### Reserved Instances

- Apps with steady state or predictable usage.
- Apps that require reserved capacity.
- Users can make up-front payments to reduce their total computing costs.
    - Standard RIs (upto 75% off on-demand).
    - Convertible RIs (upto 54% off on-demand) feature the capability to change
        the attributes of the RI as long as the exchange results in the creation
        of RIs of equal or greater value.
    - Scheduled RIs are avilable to launch within the time window you reserve.
        This option allows you to match your capacity reservation to a
        predictable recurring shcedue that only requires a fraction of a day,
        a week, or a month.
        - i.e. a business on every friday may want to increase the capacity to
            accomodate for increase in traffic.

### Spot Instances

- Apps that have flexible start and end times.
- Apps that are only feasible at very low compute prices.
    - i.e. a genetic lab may wish to run sequence analysis; can save money by
        running it during times when the price is low.
- Great for users with an urgent need for large amounts of additional computing
    capacity.

### Dedicated Hosts

- Useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant
    virtualization.
    - Some regions may not allow for various reasons (registlation).
- Great for licensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments.
- Can be purchansed either On-Demand (hourly) or a Reservation (upto %70
    discount of On-Demand).

## EC2 Instance Types

- Do not memorize it.

- There are various types depending on the needs.
    - F1: Field Programmable Gate Array
    - I3: High Speed Storage
    - G3: Graphics Intensive
    - H1: High Disk Throughput
    - T2: Loweset Cost, General Purpose
    - D2: Dense Storage
    - R4: Memory Optimized
    - M5: General Purpose
    - C5: Compute Optimized
    - P3: Graphics/General Purpose GPU
    - X1: Memory Optimized

- Try to remember as...
    - FIGHT Dr. McPX
    - Not really need to memorize for Devs; but will come up on SysOps,
        Architect exams.
    - Will ask which is a valid EC2 instance type or not.

## What is EBS?

- Think EC2 as a virtual server in cloud; EBS is a disk.
- Elastic Block Storage allows you to create storage volumes and attach them to
    Amazon EC2 instances. Once attached, you can create a file system on top of
    theses volumes, run a database, or use them in any other way you would use a
    block device.
- EBS volumes are placed in a specific AZ (Availability Zone) where they are
    automatically replicated to protect you from the failure of a single
    componenet.

## EBS Volume Types

- General Purpose SSD (GP2)
    - General purpose that balance between price and performance.
    - Ratio of 3 IOPS per GB with upto 10,000 IOPS and the ability to burst up
        to 3000 IOPS for extended periods of time for volumes at 3334 GiB +.

- Provisioned IOPS SSD (IO1)
    - For I/O intensive apps such as large relatonal or NoSQL databases.
    - Use if need more than 10,000 IOPS.

- Throughput Optimized HDD (ST1)
    - Big Data; Data Warehouses; Log processing;
    - Cannot be a boot volume.

- Cold HDD (SC1)
    - Lowest Cost Storage.
    - Adequate for File Server.
    - Cannot be a boot volume.

- Magnetic (Standard)
    - Lowest cost per GB of all EBS volume types.
    - Is bootable.
    - Ideal for workloads where data is accessed infrequently, and apps where
        the lowest sotrage cost is important.

---

# EC2 Exam Tips

- Know your 4 pricing models:
    - **On Demand** pay fixedrate by the hour (or by the second).
    - **Reserved** up-front an year or 3 year contract.
    - **Spot** price changes like stock market. bid for capacity.
        - if terminated by EC2, no charges for a partial hour of usage.
        - i.e. bided $100 per hour. Ran for 45 mins and price went upto $110 per
            hour; in this case, instance terminates and you do not pay.
        - if terminated by you, you will pay full hour.
    - **Dedicated Hosts** physical EC2 server.

- Know EC2 Instance Types: FIGHT Dr. McPX

- Know EBS Volume Types:
    - SSD
        - General Purpose
        - Prvisioned IOPS
    - Magnetic
        - Throughput Optimized HDD
        - Cold HDD
        - Magnetic

---

# EC2 Follow-Along

- Log into the AWS Management Console.
- Under Services -> Compute -> EC2.

- Let's start our first EC2 instance.
- Instances are created from various Amazon Machine Images (AMIs).
- Choose Amazon Linux AMI 2018.03.0 (HVM), SSD Volume Type.
- Then, we need to select the type of instance - varying types of underlying
    CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity (FIGHT Dr McPX).
- Next, Configure Instance Details can be left at Default for now.
- Attach storage (any additional if you would like).
- Add Tags as a key-value pair.
- Lastly, configure security group: this allows traffic in and out of your EC2
    instance.
    - Since we are creating a web server, we need to make port 80 (HTTP)
        available.
    - This is done by creating a new security group.
- When creating for the first time, we need to either select an existing key
    pair or create new key pair to connect to EC2 instance securely.
    - Pub = Lock; Private = Key.
    - Download the .pem and save it in secure location.

- Once created, you can see it under Instances.
- We can connect to it via SSH Client.
- First, find the key-pair downloaded previously to SSH into EC2 instance.
    > cd ~/Downloads
    - once found, change its file permission.
    > chmod 400 YourKeyPairName.pem
    - now, SSH into EC2.
    > ssh ec2-user@your.ec2.public.ip -i YourKeyPairName.pem
- Now, you are in the Linux Server in the cloud.
- Let's change to root and update.
> sudo su
> yum update yum -y
- Then, let's install Apache.
> yum install httpd -y
- Start Apache service.
> service httpd start
- When the server reboots, we want to automatically start the service again.
> chkconfig httpd on
- Confirm Apache is running.
> service httpd status
- To serve a webpage, we need to create one.
> cd /var/www/html
> touch index.html
- Now, when we visit the web, it should serve the web-page.
- To add Domain Name and attach it, we need to configure Load Balancer
    beforehand (to be covered).



